people want to hear from midlifers
brands are looking for you consumers are
looking for you they trust you as a
woman who's slightly over 40 what would
I do if I had to start over from scratch
and build a business online people in
our age range were like I want to live
my life I don't want to be stuck on my
phone all day I want to live but I still
want to make an impact and so that is
why we are perfectly positioned to crush
it we are in demand you are in
demand my name is shelene Johnson thank
you for joining me today on this up so
to build your tribe I'm going to answer
this question as honestly as possible
like I'm not going to give you the
fluffed up thing that you think you
might hear I'm going to share with you
my honest true opinion like if you came
to me as your girlfriend as your guy
friend and you're like hey I'm
transitioning careers or I've been doing
I've been a chiropractor all my life and
now I really want to build my online
presence or I want to go into this 2.0
version of my life and I just I don't
really have a following or for whatever
reason you want to start a business and
and you want to build like a presence
online what would I do if I were you at
your age at our age and I didn't have
the falling that I have today so a
couple of variables will determine how I
would give you advice so first thing I
would need to know is your personality
type when it comes to learning new
things I'm just going to be honest it is
so much harder to start today in some
regards than it was when I first started
building a business and brand online at
the time like there was like Instagram
there wasn't Tik Tok there wasn't I mean
there was YouTube but it like wasn't as
big of a thing I mean there's just so
many elements now that when I first
started you could learn Instagram and
you just had to post a photo and pick a
filter and then as the platform started
to evolve and grow you were evolving and
growing with it so it it didn't feel
overwhelming today the learning curve is
pretty intense which is you know and
this is not a plug but I do think if
you're someone who realizes like this is
the second half of my life I want to
make an impact now I don't want to spend
5 to 10 years figuring out all these
platforms figuring out all the
algorithms figuring out how to do this
and then hoping that I make my mark So I
guess the first question is your
personality type do you want to do this
like right now and you don't have the
time I mean maybe you do have the time
but you feel like you don't have the
time to like figure all of the things
out on your own well in that case your
only other option is you've got to hire
people to do this for you and there's
certain things that you're just going to
have to figure out yourself and certain
things you probably can figure out on
your own and certain things you are
going to have such an advantage by just
buckling down and paying someone to tell
you what to do okay and I think that's
the other reason why you're watching
this episode or listening to this
episode right now is because you're
smart enough to know that like listening
to a no offense I mean because my son is
26 but listening to a 26- yearold tell
you how to start from zero is a little
different than listening to someone
who's 54 I know it's shocking isn't it
if you don't right now drop a comment
below this video and say what you are 54
get out of here if you don't say that
I'm going to like search your IP address
and I'm going to find you and I'm going
to hunt you down and I don't know what
I'm going to do but it's going to be
intense anyways so a 54 yearold like I
know you know how much longer do I want
to do this like how much more time do I
have to make an impact in this world you
start to realize like on the Continuum
of life like I'm a little past the
middle maybe even more than a little
more than the middle you know what I'm
saying so if you recognize that then it
means you have to make a decision about
how you're going to invest your time and
your money the other challenge I think
for people our age is that we grew up in
a time when it was believed we were
being more frugal if we figured out how
to do things ourselves like you learned
to sew you learned to make your own
clothes you learned how to Di y things
like you know our parents would never
dream of having somebody come and like
cut their lawn or watch their kids so if
you've got that mindset like I'm being
wasteful if I don't try to figure this
out myself this will never work for you
because you really do after a certain
age you just have to embrace the fact
that you're going to get there faster
you're going to make more money quicker
you're going to make fewer mistakes if
you just go directly to the expert go to
the person who can help you figure out
what it is you need to do and the very
first thing you have to figure out what
you need to do is like what is the thing
you're going to talk about you do have
to have a niche in order to build your
brand you do have to start by being
known for one thing even if you are over
26 even if you are over 66 you still
have to make your mark by being known
for One Thing Once people know your name
then you can Broad in your aim I like to
say things that rhyme so you don't
forget it so that's really important and
it's going to be really hard for you to
decide what that thing is because you've
already lived so much life and there's
so there's really probably like 10
different things that you could make
your mark in there's probably like five
different things that like you could
change the world and they could easily
be your Niche so in this regard I mean
especially because we tend to get more
stubborn as we age and more like set in
our ways if you pay someone to tell you
what your Niche is like to sit down
take in your whole background take ask
you all the questions figure out what it
is you want to do figure out what it is
you've done figure out the things that
you've been through the things that set
you on fire and if you pay somebody to
do that it is crazy how you're like well
I paid for this I better take this
advice versus doing listen and I will
put a link to a couple free resources
that you can download you're welcome to
download if you think you might be able
to figure it out on your own you you
could figure it out on your own I'm just
saying if you want an expert who like
sees it more clearly than you do a lot
of people do this there's a lot of
coaches who specifically do this but the
coach that I send everybody to or the
group that I send everybody to is brand
builders like they've worked with Lewis
house Amy Porterfield a lot of names you
don't know um but most of the big names
you do know and New York Times
bestsellers and people who are over 40
who've built a brand they go to brand
builders I know they have different
packages so if you're like brand new
versus someone who's already kind of
established and trying to figure out
your brand I will put a link below this
episode you can book a call with them
and at least do kind of like figure out
what stage you're at and if in fact they
can help you but if it's not them I
highly recommend like listen let me
shoot straight with you this is the
thing that trips so many people up over
45 I know because I have thousands and
thousands and thousands of them in the
marketing impact Academy and also in our
Instagram coaching program and they for
years have just kind of been learning
and learning and learning and learning
and learning all these things but
they're not not making their mark
because they won't really Niche down
they think they're Niche down but it's
not enough and it's scary and we're like
I said we're kind of stubborn so I I
highly recommend that method it's just
paying somebody to spend time with you
personally if if you've already
downloaded all the forms or whatever and
you've gone through the questionnaires
or you watched one of my workshops
that's awesome but if you're still like
I I still am not quite sure you don't
have any time to waste let's get to it
the next thing I would do is focus on
which platform makes the most sense for
you to start on and go all in on one my
personal preference is long form content
right now I think it's going to be
really hard for someone who's over 45
it's harder not really hard it's it's
harder to make really short concise
Niche related content that pops off you
might be one of the few that would be
awesome but there's a a tendency and a
trend towards even younger consumers
they want to consume longer form content
that's not as produced that's not as
jump cut is it's a little slower and
there's a wisdom to
it I think the way the place to like
kind of hone your skills is Tik Tok the
other place to hone your skills is right
here if you're watching this episode
anyways on YouTube long form content it
it lives on indefinitely you're going to
spend a lot of time and get really
frustrated making short form content if
you're of a certain age and and like
listen y'all know that I'm speaking your
best interest because I teach an
Instagram course so if I was if I only
cared about my best interest I would
tell you you need to start on Instagram
and I can help you do it no like I
really do think long form content is a
way for you to go also if you create a
long form content like you just open up
your camera and start talking teaching
sharing wisdom on the thing that is your
Niche right then that content can be
downloaded and depending on your editing
capabilities it can be cut into short
form content that can later work on
Instagram that can later work on YouTube
Reals that can later work in a lot of
other formats because everyone now has a
video format but I I think the place to
hone your skills would be Tik Tok and or
YouTube I think that you also have to
consider again are you going to learn
how to create and edit content because
if you already know how to do that
awesome if not you then need to
Outsource this like again how how much
time do you really have not just to make
the content but to figure out how to
edit it and post it and all the hire
someone to help you and you can do this
so inexpensively or you can do it very
expensively do your research find
someone who can help you edit the
content and really I'm telling you like
probably your grandkid or your teenage
son can find someone that they know if
they can't do it themselves and you just
pay them very little money to create
content that pops off that otherwise you
would be spending hours and hours and
hours and it's still no offense it still
wouldn't be quite right you know what
I'm saying don't take it personal it's
just the truth the next thing I would do
again would be depend upon your
personality and your current financial
situation so if you want to pop off if
you want to make your mark and become
the brand we need a place to send people
where they can connect with you and you
can build community other than the
social media platforms that means you
need to have your own email list and
people underestimate like email list is
still the jam like before there was even
social media to build my following I had
an email list I would email Fitness
instructors because that's who we were
helping with our business powder blue
production and to this day my most loyal
customers even though I'm not giving
them Fitness content anymore they've
grown up with me they trust me and the
only way I'm able to get in contact with
them is because they've been on my email
list for like 12 15 years
so an email list is critical you need an
email list and you need to build like a
website a landing page you need to have
appropriate attractive premiums which is
like an opt-in page it's a what they
call an ethical bribe it's like
something you're going to say to people
like hey now that you've seen this Tik
Tok video now that you've seen this
Instagram video this real here's how we
can connect on a deeper level again
based on your personality is that
something you want to figure out how to
build all that and build it all the
right way and make sure the backend's
all connected and your email list is
segment like do you want to spend the
next 3 years I've grew up in this stuff
and I still am confused by it I'm still
going to Outsource that to somebody else
and you can do so today so
inexpensively I mean there are companies
and programs we've talked about many of
them here on build your tribe that they
have the allinone where you're getting
an email provider a CRM customer
relationship Management program and it's
also giving you a way to segment your
list and the give you landing pages and
and really as long as you have like
landing pages you really don't even need
a website per se you just need a place
to send people and those are given to
you with many of those CRM providers if
that's something in particular you'd
like for me to break down like maybe my
top five recommendations for crms based
again on where you're starting how much
you have to invest if you have a team
your technical abilities and maybe the
size of the list that you intend to grow
in the next year I would be happy to do
that I don't want to make this video to
discourage you I'm making this episode
to really just paint a very honest
picture for those of you who are like I
want to do this I know I have something
special to offer I know I can make my
mark but I'm struggling with the minutia
and I don't know where to start let's
recap the place you start is with your
Niche and if you're of a certain age my
recommendation is hire somebody pay
someone because when we pay we pay
attention we follow through if you don't
follow through on this stuff or if you
follow through and you're not quite sure
because you did it yourself and you're
like I hope this is the right Niche I
hope this is something that's marketable
I hope this is something that there's a
need for it in the market if that
happens you're not going to go to it
with the same kind of confidence you
might otherwise if some expert tells you
this this is what you need to do this is
amazing there's such a need for this in
the market that would give you such
incredible confidence and I believe that
is step one step two is then just a
recap is then to figure out which
platform are you going to go all in on
and the other ones can be of secondary
interest step three is deciding if
you're going to learn how to not just
create your content but also edit your
content in a way that works for each one
of these platforms because y'all It
Ain't Easy out here in these streets
your girl spends most of her day
studying the algorithms of each one of
these platforms and it's pretty gnarly
it's pretty gnarly
now is there the occasional person who
just like pops off by accident totally
but that's fewer and far between and
there's lots of people have like viral
for you videos but there's a difference
between going viral having a lot of
followers and building a sustainable
brand people are looking for you people
want to hear from midlifers they want to
hear from you they trust you who do you
want to hear from who do you want to
give you advice like you know an infant
a middle schooler or you know what I'm
saying or like someone who's been there
been around the block is going to shoot
straight with you and you can tell that
they don't have an Altier motive they're
like literally wiser they've been
through the ups and downs you can trust
them and that is why people who are
midlifers if you're over 40 like people
are looking for you they really are
brands are looking for you consumers are
looking for you and guess what we have
more money than the young ones I mean
they're so cute aren't they I mean trust
me there's some very wealthy 20s
somethings but if we're speaking from a
demographic standpoint our age group has
far more median income and disposable
income and we influence each other so
you are perfectly you are primed you're
in the right position to do this here's
the other thing Our Generation we want
to learn from experts whereas the
younger generation they know I've got
like 40 50 years ahead of me or 60 years
ahead of me I can try to figure this out
myself where people people in our age
range were like yeah no I want to live
my life I don't want to be stuck on my
phone all day I don't want to be sitting
at a computer figuring out how to code a
landing page I want to live but I still
want to make an impact and so that is
why we are perfectly positioned to crush
it we are in demand you are in demand we
just have to make sure people know about
you let me know below this episode if
again you would like for me to do a a
breakdown of the top five crms email
management programs
that I think you should look at if
you're just getting started or if you're
a small or solo entrepreneur I'd be
happy to do that I'd also like to
recommend if you've made it to this
point in the video I've recently done a
few episodes about how do you stand out
if you're over 40 and how do you build a
personal brand like what does it look
like if you were to like remake maybe
you already have an Instagram if you
were like to remake your Instagram
account and how do you know what's
working what's not working what are the
initial steps to building a personal
brand I will link to both of those in
our show description you can watch them
here on YouTube as well hey it is my
goal to be brief to be bright to make it
fun and then be done ladies and
gentlemen we're
done okay let's get to it shall
[Music]
we